README.md, before:

# Rust Ceramic

Implementation of the Ceramic protocol in Rust.

Current status is that the `ceramic-one` binary only mimics the Kubo RPC API and relies on https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic for the remaining logic.

## Usage

Run in single binary using the `ceramic-one` crate:

    $ cargo run -p ceramic-one -- daemon

The process honors RUST_LOG env variable for controlling its logging output.
For example, to enable debug logging for code from this repo but error logging for all other code use:

    $ RUST_LOG=ERROR,ceramic_kubo_rpc=DEBUG,ceramic_one=DEBUG cargo run -p ceramic-one -- daemon

## Packaging
To package rust-ceramic, you will need the following dependencies

* [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/)
* [FPM](https://fpm.readthedocs.io/en/v1.15.1/) - `gem install fpm`
 * Dependent on your system, you might also need [ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/)

You can then run the [package script](./ci-scripts/package.sh) to generate a package for your operating system.

## Releasing
To release rust-ceramic, you will need the following dependencies

* [git cliff](https://git-cliff.org/docs/installation/crates-io)
* [cargo-release](https://github.com/crate-ci/cargo-release)
* [gh client](https://cli.github.com/)

When releasing, please release at the appropriate level

* `patch` -> binary compatible, no new functionality
* `minor` (default) -> binary incompatible or binary compatible with new functionality
* `major` -> breaking functionality

You will also need to login with the `gh` client to your github account, and that account needs permission to perform
a release of the rust-ceramic repository.

You can then run the [release script](./ci-scripts/release.sh) to create a release of rust-ceramic.

## Contributing

We are happy to accept small and large contributions, feel free to make a suggestion or submit a pull request.

Use the provided `Makefile` for basic actions to ensure your changes are ready for CI.

    $ make build
    $ make check-clippy
    $ make check-fmt
    $ make test

Using the makefile is not necessary during your development cycle, feel free to use the relevant cargo commands directly.
However running `make` before publishing a PR will provide a good signal if you PR will pass CI.

### Generating Servers

There are two OpenAPI based servers that are generated.
The `ceramic-api-server` and `ceramic-kubo-rpc-server` crates are generated using OpenAPI.
Install `@openapitools/openapi-generator-cli` and make to generate the crates:

      npm install @openapitools/openapi-generator-cli@2.6.0 -g
      make gen-api-server
      make gen-kubo-rpc-server

### Migration
This repo also contains the kubo to ceramic-one migration script.

This script will read ipfs repo files matching ~/.ipfs/blocks/**/*
and insert them into the ceramic-one database ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3

The migration script will scan the input-ipfs-path for any file that has
a b32 multibase as the filename not including the extension. When a file matches its hash it will be copied into the database at output-ceramic-path.

you can run it with cargo

    $ cargo run --bin migration -- -h
    Usage: migration [OPTIONS]

    Options:
    -i, --input-ipfs-path <INPUT_IPFS_PATH>
            The path to the ipfs_repo [eg: ~/.ipfs/blocks]
    -c, --input-ceramic-db <INPUT_CERAMIC_DB>
            The path to the input_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -o, --output-ceramic-path <OUTPUT_CERAMIC_PATH>
            The path to the output_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -v, --verbose...
            More output per occurrence
    -q, --quiet...
            Less output per occurrence
    -h, --help
            Print help
    -V, --version
            Print version

or build it, move migration to you ceramic box, run it there.

    $ cargo build --frozen --release --bin migration
    $ cp target/release/migration ./migration
    $ ./migration -h
    Usage: migration [OPTIONS]

    Options:
    -i, --input-ipfs-path <INPUT_IPFS_PATH>
            The path to the ipfs_repo [eg: ~/.ipfs/blocks]
    -c, --input-ceramic-db <INPUT_CERAMIC_DB>
            The path to the input_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -o, --output-ceramic-path <OUTPUT_CERAMIC_PATH>
            The path to the output_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -v, --verbose...
            More output per occurrence
    -q, --quiet...
            Less output per occurrence
    -h, --help
            Print help
    -V, --version
            Print version

Migration

* Ingest all the SHA256 blocks from your local filesystem block store to a sqlite3 database
    ```zsh
    ./migration --input-ipfs-path '~/.ipfs/blocks' --output-ceramic-path '~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3'
    ```
  * Pass in the input path to the blocks folder the script will import all blocks 
    in the directory that is named with its multihash. 
  * Pass in the where you would like the sqlite database as the output path.
* Move the sqlite3 database to the new rust-ceramic node.
* Start the new rust-ceramic server and point the compose DB node to it.
    ```zsh
    ./ceramic-one daemon --bind-address '127.0.0.1:5001'
    ```
* Once the traffic is cut over to the new node and we know there are not new block being crated on the old node.
Re-run the migration to pick up any new block that were crated after the first migration
    ```zsh
    ./migration --input-ipfs-path '~/.ipfs/blocks' --output-ceramic-path '~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3.bck'
    ```
* Move the second sqlite3 database to the new rust-ceramic node.
* Ingest the new block from this second sqlite3 database.
    ```zsh
    ./migration  --input-ceramic-db 'db.sqlite3.bck' --output-ceramic-path '~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3.bck'
    ```

## License

Fully open source and dual-licensed under MIT and Apache 2.

Commit message:

feat: Add feed endpoint to propagate event data to js-ceramic (#255)
* feat: refactor api recon traits along model/interest

* feat: remove recon::Client from API server

Depend on traits tied to storage for data access (also used by recon). Need to verify metrics still work as expected

* feat: add new route to get feed of new events

Route returns a string that can be used to resume finding only newer data

* fix: clean up and document some choices (pr feedback)

* fix: event type with only id/data instead of eventId/eventData

renamed existing type EventDeprecated. It is used by subscribe (deprecated) and as input when creating and event (POST /events).

* fix: clippy whitespace warning

* chore: add augtool info to readme

* fix: re-gen api server

augtool on my pc isn't working right and I botched the manual edit. Switched to mac

---------

Co-authored-by: David Estes <dav1do@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Rust Ceramic

Implementation of the Ceramic protocol in Rust.

Current status is that the `ceramic-one` binary only mimics the Kubo RPC API and relies on https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic for the remaining logic.

## Usage

Run in single binary using the `ceramic-one` crate:

    $ cargo run -p ceramic-one -- daemon

The process honors RUST_LOG env variable for controlling its logging output.
For example, to enable debug logging for code from this repo but error logging for all other code use:

    $ RUST_LOG=ERROR,ceramic_kubo_rpc=DEBUG,ceramic_one=DEBUG cargo run -p ceramic-one -- daemon

## Packaging
To package rust-ceramic, you will need the following dependencies

* [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/)
* [FPM](https://fpm.readthedocs.io/en/v1.15.1/) - `gem install fpm`
 * Dependent on your system, you might also need [ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/)

You can then run the [package script](./ci-scripts/package.sh) to generate a package for your operating system.

## Releasing
To release rust-ceramic, you will need the following dependencies

* [git cliff](https://git-cliff.org/docs/installation/crates-io)
* [cargo-release](https://github.com/crate-ci/cargo-release)
* [gh client](https://cli.github.com/)

When releasing, please release at the appropriate level

* `patch` -> binary compatible, no new functionality
* `minor` (default) -> binary incompatible or binary compatible with new functionality
* `major` -> breaking functionality

You will also need to login with the `gh` client to your github account, and that account needs permission to perform
a release of the rust-ceramic repository.

You can then run the [release script](./ci-scripts/release.sh) to create a release of rust-ceramic.

## Contributing

We are happy to accept small and large contributions, feel free to make a suggestion or submit a pull request.

Use the provided `Makefile` for basic actions to ensure your changes are ready for CI.

    $ make build
    $ make check-clippy
    $ make check-fmt
    $ make test

Using the makefile is not necessary during your development cycle, feel free to use the relevant cargo commands directly.
However running `make` before publishing a PR will provide a good signal if you PR will pass CI.

### Generating Servers

There are two OpenAPI based servers that are generated.
The `ceramic-api-server` and `ceramic-kubo-rpc-server` crates are generated using OpenAPI.
Install `@openapitools/openapi-generator-cli` and make to generate the crates. You will need to install augtools to run the checks:

      # Install augtools e.g. brew install augeas or apt-get install augeas-tools
      npm install @openapitools/openapi-generator-cli@2.6.0 -g
      make gen-api-server
      make gen-kubo-rpc-server

### Migration
This repo also contains the kubo to ceramic-one migration script.

This script will read ipfs repo files matching ~/.ipfs/blocks/**/*
and insert them into the ceramic-one database ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3

The migration script will scan the input-ipfs-path for any file that has
a b32 multibase as the filename not including the extension. When a file matches its hash it will be copied into the database at output-ceramic-path.

you can run it with cargo

    $ cargo run --bin migration -- -h
    Usage: migration [OPTIONS]

    Options:
    -i, --input-ipfs-path <INPUT_IPFS_PATH>
            The path to the ipfs_repo [eg: ~/.ipfs/blocks]
    -c, --input-ceramic-db <INPUT_CERAMIC_DB>
            The path to the input_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -o, --output-ceramic-path <OUTPUT_CERAMIC_PATH>
            The path to the output_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -v, --verbose...
            More output per occurrence
    -q, --quiet...
            Less output per occurrence
    -h, --help
            Print help
    -V, --version
            Print version

or build it, move migration to you ceramic box, run it there.

    $ cargo build --frozen --release --bin migration
    $ cp target/release/migration ./migration
    $ ./migration -h
    Usage: migration [OPTIONS]

    Options:
    -i, --input-ipfs-path <INPUT_IPFS_PATH>
            The path to the ipfs_repo [eg: ~/.ipfs/blocks]
    -c, --input-ceramic-db <INPUT_CERAMIC_DB>
            The path to the input_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -o, --output-ceramic-path <OUTPUT_CERAMIC_PATH>
            The path to the output_ceramic_db [eg: ~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3]
    -v, --verbose...
            More output per occurrence
    -q, --quiet...
            Less output per occurrence
    -h, --help
            Print help
    -V, --version
            Print version

Migration

* Ingest all the SHA256 blocks from your local filesystem block store to a sqlite3 database
    ```zsh
    ./migration --input-ipfs-path '~/.ipfs/blocks' --output-ceramic-path '~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3'
    ```
  * Pass in the input path to the blocks folder the script will import all blocks 
    in the directory that is named with its multihash. 
  * Pass in the where you would like the sqlite database as the output path.
* Move the sqlite3 database to the new rust-ceramic node.
* Start the new rust-ceramic server and point the compose DB node to it.
    ```zsh
    ./ceramic-one daemon --bind-address '127.0.0.1:5001'
    ```
* Once the traffic is cut over to the new node and we know there are not new block being crated on the old node.
Re-run the migration to pick up any new block that were crated after the first migration
    ```zsh
    ./migration --input-ipfs-path '~/.ipfs/blocks' --output-ceramic-path '~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3.bck'
    ```
* Move the second sqlite3 database to the new rust-ceramic node.
* Ingest the new block from this second sqlite3 database.
    ```zsh
    ./migration  --input-ceramic-db 'db.sqlite3.bck' --output-ceramic-path '~/.ceramic-one/db.sqlite3.bck'
    ```

## License

Fully open source and dual-licensed under MIT and Apache 2.
