api-server/docs/default_api.md, before:

# default_api

All URIs are relative to */ceramic*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /debug/heap | Get the heap statistics of the Ceramic node
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /events/{event_id} | Get event data
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /events | Creates a new event
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/events/{sep}/{sepValue} | Get events matching the interest stored on the node
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /feed/events | Get all new event keys since resume token
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests | Register interest for a sort key
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests/{sort_key}/{sort_value} | Register interest for a sort key
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /liveness | Test the liveness of the Ceramic node
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /version | Get the version of the Ceramic node


# ****
> swagger::ByteArray ()
Get the heap statistics of the Ceramic node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

[**swagger::ByteArray**](file.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json, application/octet-stream

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::Event (event_id)
Get event data

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **event_id** | **String**| CID of the root block of the event, used to identify of the event | 

### Return type

[**models::Event**](Event.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json, text/plain

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> (event_data)
Creates a new event

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **event_data** | [**EventData**](EventData.md)| Event to add to the node | 

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: application/json
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::EventsGet (sep, sep_value, optional)
Get events matching the interest stored on the node

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **sep** | **String**| Name of the field in the Events header that holds the separator value e.g. 'model' | 
  **sep_value** | **String**| The value of the field in the Events header indicated by the separator key me.g. multibase encoded model ID | 
 **optional** | **map[string]interface{}** | optional parameters | nil if no parameters

### Optional Parameters
Optional parameters are passed through a map[string]interface{}.

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **sep** | **String**| Name of the field in the Events header that holds the separator value e.g. 'model' | 
 **sep_value** | **String**| The value of the field in the Events header indicated by the separator key me.g. multibase encoded model ID | 
 **controller** | **String**| the controller to filter (DID string) | 
 **stream_id** | **String**| the stream to filter (multibase encoded stream ID) | 
 **offset** | **i32**| token that designates the point to resume from, that is find keys added after this point | 
 **limit** | **i32**| the maximum number of events to return, default is 10000. | 

### Return type

[**models::EventsGet**](EventsGet.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::EventFeed (optional)
Get all new event keys since resume token

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **optional** | **map[string]interface{}** | optional parameters | nil if no parameters

### Optional Parameters
Optional parameters are passed through a map[string]interface{}.

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **resume_at** | **String**| token that designates the point to resume from, that is find keys added after this point | 
 **limit** | **i32**| the maximum number of events to return, default is 10000. | 

### Return type

[**models::EventFeed**](EventFeed.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> (interest)
Register interest for a sort key

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **interest** | [**Interest**](Interest.md)| Interest to register on the node | 

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: application/json
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> (sort_key, sort_value, optional)
Register interest for a sort key

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **sort_key** | **String**| name of the sort_key | 
  **sort_value** | **String**| value associated with the sort key | 
 **optional** | **map[string]interface{}** | optional parameters | nil if no parameters

### Optional Parameters
Optional parameters are passed through a map[string]interface{}.

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **sort_key** | **String**| name of the sort_key | 
 **sort_value** | **String**| value associated with the sort key | 
 **controller** | **String**| the controller to register interest for | 
 **stream_id** | **String**| the stream to register interest for | 

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> ()
Test the liveness of the Ceramic node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::Version ()
Get the version of the Ceramic node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

[**models::Version**](Version.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

Commit message:

feat: add interests endpoint for inspecting interests of a node (#353)

api-server/docs/default_api.md, after:

# default_api

All URIs are relative to */ceramic*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /debug/heap | Get the heap statistics of the Ceramic node
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /events/{event_id} | Get event data
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /events | Creates a new event
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/events/{sep}/{sepValue} | Get events matching the interest stored on the node
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/interests | Get the interests stored on the node
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /feed/events | Get all new event keys since resume token
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests | Register interest for a sort key
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests/{sort_key}/{sort_value} | Register interest for a sort key
****](default_api.md#) | **GET** /liveness | Test the liveness of the Ceramic node
****](default_api.md#) | **POST** /version | Get the version of the Ceramic node


# ****
> swagger::ByteArray ()
Get the heap statistics of the Ceramic node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

[**swagger::ByteArray**](file.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json, application/octet-stream

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::Event (event_id)
Get event data

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **event_id** | **String**| CID of the root block of the event, used to identify of the event | 

### Return type

[**models::Event**](Event.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json, text/plain

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> (event_data)
Creates a new event

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **event_data** | [**EventData**](EventData.md)| Event to add to the node | 

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: application/json
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::EventsGet (sep, sep_value, optional)
Get events matching the interest stored on the node

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **sep** | **String**| Name of the field in the Events header that holds the separator value e.g. 'model' | 
  **sep_value** | **String**| The value of the field in the Events header indicated by the separator key me.g. multibase encoded model ID | 
 **optional** | **map[string]interface{}** | optional parameters | nil if no parameters

### Optional Parameters
Optional parameters are passed through a map[string]interface{}.

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **sep** | **String**| Name of the field in the Events header that holds the separator value e.g. 'model' | 
 **sep_value** | **String**| The value of the field in the Events header indicated by the separator key me.g. multibase encoded model ID | 
 **controller** | **String**| the controller to filter (DID string) | 
 **stream_id** | **String**| the stream to filter (multibase encoded stream ID) | 
 **offset** | **i32**| token that designates the point to resume from, that is find keys added after this point | 
 **limit** | **i32**| the maximum number of events to return, default is 10000. | 

### Return type

[**models::EventsGet**](EventsGet.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::InterestsGet ()
Get the interests stored on the node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

[**models::InterestsGet**](InterestsGet.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::EventFeed (optional)
Get all new event keys since resume token

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **optional** | **map[string]interface{}** | optional parameters | nil if no parameters

### Optional Parameters
Optional parameters are passed through a map[string]interface{}.

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **resume_at** | **String**| token that designates the point to resume from, that is find keys added after this point | 
 **limit** | **i32**| the maximum number of events to return, default is 10000. | 

### Return type

[**models::EventFeed**](EventFeed.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> (interest)
Register interest for a sort key

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **interest** | [**Interest**](Interest.md)| Interest to register on the node | 

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: application/json
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> (sort_key, sort_value, optional)
Register interest for a sort key

### Required Parameters

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
  **sort_key** | **String**| name of the sort_key | 
  **sort_value** | **String**| value associated with the sort key | 
 **optional** | **map[string]interface{}** | optional parameters | nil if no parameters

### Optional Parameters
Optional parameters are passed through a map[string]interface{}.

Name | Type | Description  | Notes
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
 **sort_key** | **String**| name of the sort_key | 
 **sort_value** | **String**| value associated with the sort key | 
 **controller** | **String**| the controller to register interest for | 
 **stream_id** | **String**| the stream to register interest for | 

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> ()
Test the liveness of the Ceramic node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

 (empty response body)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

# ****
> models::Version ()
Get the version of the Ceramic node

### Required Parameters
This endpoint does not need any parameter.

### Return type

[**models::Version**](Version.md)

### Authorization

No authorization required

### HTTP request headers

 - **Content-Type**: Not defined
 - **Accept**: application/json

[[Back to top]](#) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to README]](../README.md)
