# Rust API for ceramic-kubo-rpc-server

This is the Kubo RPC API for working with IPLD data on IPFS This API only defines a small subset of the official API.


## Overview

This client/server was generated by the [openapi-generator]
(https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the
[OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote
server, you can easily generate a server stub.

To see how to make this your own, look here:

[README]((https://openapi-generator.tech))

- API version: 0.9.0
- Build date: 2024-01-17T12:46:50.987533413-07:00[America/Denver]



This autogenerated project defines an API crate `ceramic-kubo-rpc-server` which contains:
* An `Api` trait defining the API in Rust.
* Data types representing the underlying data model.
* A `Client` type which implements `Api` and issues HTTP requests for each operation.
* A router which accepts HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate `Api` method for each operation.

It also contains an example server and client which make use of `ceramic-kubo-rpc-server`:

* The example server starts up a web server using the `ceramic-kubo-rpc-server`
    router, and supplies a trivial implementation of `Api` which returns failure
    for every operation.
* The example client provides a CLI which lets you invoke
    any single operation on the `ceramic-kubo-rpc-server` client by passing appropriate
    arguments on the command line.

You can use the example server and client as a basis for your own code.
See below for [more detail on implementing a server](#writing-a-server).

## Examples

Run examples with:

```
cargo run --example <example-name>
```

To pass in arguments to the examples, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --example client -- --help
```

### Running the example server
To run the server, follow these simple steps:

```
cargo run --example server
```

### Running the example client
To run a client, follow one of the following simple steps:

```
cargo run --example client BlockGetPost
cargo run --example client BlockPutPost
cargo run --example client BlockStatPost
cargo run --example client DagGetPost
cargo run --example client DagImportPost
cargo run --example client DagPutPost
cargo run --example client DagResolvePost
cargo run --example client IdPost
cargo run --example client PinAddPost
cargo run --example client PinRmPost
cargo run --example client SwarmConnectPost
cargo run --example client SwarmPeersPost
cargo run --example client VersionPost
```

### HTTPS
The examples can be run in HTTPS mode by passing in the flag `--https`, for example:

```
cargo run --example server -- --https
```

This will use the keys/certificates from the examples directory. Note that the
server chain is signed with `CN=localhost`.

## Using the generated library

The generated library has a few optional features that can be activated through Cargo.

* `server`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a server implementation based on hyper
    * To create the server stack you'll need to provide an implementation of the API trait to provide the server function.
* `client`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a client implementation based on hyper
    * The constructed client implements the API trait by making remote API call.
* `conversions`
    * This defaults to disabled and creates extra derives on models to allow "transmogrification" between objects of structurally similar types.

See https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-features-section for how to use features in your `Cargo.toml`.

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to */api/v0*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /block/get | Get a single IPFS block
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /block/put | Put a single IPFS block
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /block/stat | Report statistics about a block
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /dag/get | Get an IPLD node from IPFS
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /dag/import | Import a CAR file of IPLD nodes into IPFS
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /dag/put | Put an IPLD node into IPFS
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /dag/resolve | Resolve an IPFS path to a DAG node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /id | Report identifying information about a node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /pin/add | Add a block to the pin store
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /pin/rm | Remove a block from the pin store
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /swarm/connect | Connect to peers
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /swarm/peers | Report connected peers
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /version | Report server version


## Documentation For Models

 - [BlockPutPost200Response](docs/BlockPutPost200Response.md)
 - [Codecs](docs/Codecs.md)
 - [DagImportPost200Response](docs/DagImportPost200Response.md)
 - [DagPutPost200Response](docs/DagPutPost200Response.md)
 - [DagPutPost200ResponseCid](docs/DagPutPost200ResponseCid.md)
 - [DagResolvePost200Response](docs/DagResolvePost200Response.md)
 - [DagResolvePost200ResponseCid](docs/DagResolvePost200ResponseCid.md)
 - [Error](docs/Error.md)
 - [IdPost200Response](docs/IdPost200Response.md)
 - [Multihash](docs/Multihash.md)
 - [PinAddPost200Response](docs/PinAddPost200Response.md)
 - [SwarmConnectPost200Response](docs/SwarmConnectPost200Response.md)
 - [SwarmPeersPost200Response](docs/SwarmPeersPost200Response.md)
 - [SwarmPeersPost200ResponsePeersInner](docs/SwarmPeersPost200ResponsePeersInner.md)
 - [VersionPost200Response](docs/VersionPost200Response.md)


## Documentation For Authorization
Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author



