api-server/README.md, before:

# Rust API for ceramic-api-server

This is the Ceramic API for working with streams and events


## Overview

This client/server was generated by the [openapi-generator]
(https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the
[OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote
server, you can easily generate a server stub.

To see how to make this your own, look here:

[README]((https://openapi-generator.tech))

- API version: 0.21.0
- Build date: 2024-06-03T14:31:01.691435132Z[Etc/UTC]



This autogenerated project defines an API crate `ceramic-api-server` which contains:
* An `Api` trait defining the API in Rust.
* Data types representing the underlying data model.
* A `Client` type which implements `Api` and issues HTTP requests for each operation.
* A router which accepts HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate `Api` method for each operation.

It also contains an example server and client which make use of `ceramic-api-server`:

* The example server starts up a web server using the `ceramic-api-server`
    router, and supplies a trivial implementation of `Api` which returns failure
    for every operation.
* The example client provides a CLI which lets you invoke
    any single operation on the `ceramic-api-server` client by passing appropriate
    arguments on the command line.

You can use the example server and client as a basis for your own code.
See below for [more detail on implementing a server](#writing-a-server).

## Examples

Run examples with:

```
cargo run --example <example-name>
```

To pass in arguments to the examples, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --example client -- --help
```

### Running the example server
To run the server, follow these simple steps:

```
cargo run --example server
```

### Running the example client
To run a client, follow one of the following simple steps:

```
cargo run --example client DebugHeapGet
cargo run --example client EventsEventIdGet
cargo run --example client ExperimentalEventsSepSepValueGet
cargo run --example client ExperimentalInterestsGet
cargo run --example client FeedEventsGet
cargo run --example client InterestsSortKeySortValuePost
cargo run --example client LivenessGet
cargo run --example client VersionPost
```

### HTTPS
The examples can be run in HTTPS mode by passing in the flag `--https`, for example:

```
cargo run --example server -- --https
```

This will use the keys/certificates from the examples directory. Note that the
server chain is signed with `CN=localhost`.

## Using the generated library

The generated library has a few optional features that can be activated through Cargo.

* `server`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a server implementation based on hyper
    * To create the server stack you'll need to provide an implementation of the API trait to provide the server function.
* `client`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a client implementation based on hyper
    * The constructed client implements the API trait by making remote API call.
* `conversions`
    * This defaults to disabled and creates extra derives on models to allow "transmogrification" between objects of structurally similar types.

See https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-features-section for how to use features in your `Cargo.toml`.

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to */ceramic*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /debug/heap | Get the heap statistics of the Ceramic node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /events/{event_id} | Get event data
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /events | Creates a new event
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/events/{sep}/{sepValue} | Get events matching the interest stored on the node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/interests | Get the interests stored on the node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /feed/events | Get all new event keys since resume token
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests | Register interest for a sort key
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests/{sort_key}/{sort_value} | Register interest for a sort key
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /liveness | Test the liveness of the Ceramic node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /version | Get the version of the Ceramic node


## Documentation For Models

 - [BadRequestResponse](docs/BadRequestResponse.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [Event](docs/Event.md)
 - [EventData](docs/EventData.md)
 - [EventFeed](docs/EventFeed.md)
 - [EventsGet](docs/EventsGet.md)
 - [Interest](docs/Interest.md)
 - [InterestsGet](docs/InterestsGet.md)
 - [InterestsGetInterestsInner](docs/InterestsGetInterestsInner.md)
 - [Version](docs/Version.md)


## Documentation For Authorization
Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author

Commit message:

chore: add version get endpoint

api-server/README.md, after:

# Rust API for ceramic-api-server

This is the Ceramic API for working with streams and events


## Overview

This client/server was generated by the [openapi-generator]
(https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the
[OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote
server, you can easily generate a server stub.

To see how to make this your own, look here:

[README]((https://openapi-generator.tech))

- API version: 0.21.0
- Build date: 2024-06-03T09:28:33.738904-06:00[America/Denver]



This autogenerated project defines an API crate `ceramic-api-server` which contains:
* An `Api` trait defining the API in Rust.
* Data types representing the underlying data model.
* A `Client` type which implements `Api` and issues HTTP requests for each operation.
* A router which accepts HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate `Api` method for each operation.

It also contains an example server and client which make use of `ceramic-api-server`:

* The example server starts up a web server using the `ceramic-api-server`
    router, and supplies a trivial implementation of `Api` which returns failure
    for every operation.
* The example client provides a CLI which lets you invoke
    any single operation on the `ceramic-api-server` client by passing appropriate
    arguments on the command line.

You can use the example server and client as a basis for your own code.
See below for [more detail on implementing a server](#writing-a-server).

## Examples

Run examples with:

```
cargo run --example <example-name>
```

To pass in arguments to the examples, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --example client -- --help
```

### Running the example server
To run the server, follow these simple steps:

```
cargo run --example server
```

### Running the example client
To run a client, follow one of the following simple steps:

```
cargo run --example client DebugHeapGet
cargo run --example client EventsEventIdGet
cargo run --example client ExperimentalEventsSepSepValueGet
cargo run --example client ExperimentalInterestsGet
cargo run --example client FeedEventsGet
cargo run --example client InterestsSortKeySortValuePost
cargo run --example client LivenessGet
cargo run --example client VersionGet
cargo run --example client VersionPost
```

### HTTPS
The examples can be run in HTTPS mode by passing in the flag `--https`, for example:

```
cargo run --example server -- --https
```

This will use the keys/certificates from the examples directory. Note that the
server chain is signed with `CN=localhost`.

## Using the generated library

The generated library has a few optional features that can be activated through Cargo.

* `server`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a server implementation based on hyper
    * To create the server stack you'll need to provide an implementation of the API trait to provide the server function.
* `client`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a client implementation based on hyper
    * The constructed client implements the API trait by making remote API call.
* `conversions`
    * This defaults to disabled and creates extra derives on models to allow "transmogrification" between objects of structurally similar types.

See https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-features-section for how to use features in your `Cargo.toml`.

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to */ceramic*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /debug/heap | Get the heap statistics of the Ceramic node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /events/{event_id} | Get event data
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /events | Creates a new event
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/events/{sep}/{sepValue} | Get events matching the interest stored on the node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /experimental/interests | Get the interests stored on the node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /feed/events | Get all new event keys since resume token
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests | Register interest for a sort key
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /interests/{sort_key}/{sort_value} | Register interest for a sort key
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /liveness | Test the liveness of the Ceramic node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **GET** /version | Get the version of the Ceramic node
[****](docs/default_api.md#) | **POST** /version | Get the version of the Ceramic node


## Documentation For Models

 - [BadRequestResponse](docs/BadRequestResponse.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [Event](docs/Event.md)
 - [EventData](docs/EventData.md)
 - [EventFeed](docs/EventFeed.md)
 - [EventsGet](docs/EventsGet.md)
 - [Interest](docs/Interest.md)
 - [InterestsGet](docs/InterestsGet.md)
 - [InterestsGetInterestsInner](docs/InterestsGetInterestsInner.md)
 - [Version](docs/Version.md)


## Documentation For Authorization
Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author
