anchor-evm/README.md, before:

# Ceramic EVM Anchoring Implementation

A complete self-anchoring solution for Ceramic that can submit root CIDs to any EVM-compatible blockchain using the alloy library.

## Features

- **Multi-chain Support**: Works with any EVM blockchain (Ethereum, Gnosis, Polygon, Arbitrum, Base, etc.)
- **Production Ready**: Comprehensive error handling, retry logic with exponential backoff
- **Compatible**: Maintains compatibility with existing Ceramic anchor service patterns
- **Efficient**: Uses modern alloy library with automatic gas estimation
- **Self-Sovereign**: No reliance on centralized anchor services

## Testing

The crate includes comprehensive tests at multiple levels:

### Unit Tests (no blockchain required)

```bash
cargo test -p ceramic-anchor-evm
```

Runs 15 tests including:
- CID to bytes32 conversion (verified against JS implementation)
- Transaction hash to CID (uses Keccak256 multihash + ETH_TX codec)
- Proof building with correct parameter order
- Configuration validation

### Integration Test: TransactionManager

Tests the EVM transaction submission flow in isolation.

```bash
# Required: Private key (hex, no 0x prefix)
export TEST_PRIVATE_KEY="your_private_key_hex"

# Optional: Override defaults
export TEST_RPC_URL="https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY"
export TEST_CONTRACT_ADDRESS="0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC"
export TEST_CHAIN_ID="100"

# Run the test
cargo test -p ceramic-anchor-evm test_evm_anchoring -- --ignored --nocapture
```

**What it tests:**
1. Connects to EVM chain and validates chain ID
2. Submits anchor transaction to contract
3. Waits for confirmations
4. Returns `RootTimeEvent` with correct proof structure

### Integration Test: Full AnchorService Flow

Tests the complete anchor pipeline including merkle tree building and time event creation.

```bash
export TEST_PRIVATE_KEY="your_private_key_hex"

cargo test -p ceramic-anchor-evm test_anchor_service_with_evm -- --ignored --nocapture
```

**What it tests:**
1. Creates mock anchor requests via `MockAnchorEventService`
2. `AnchorService` builds merkle tree from requests
3. Root CID is anchored on EVM chain
4. Time events are created with correct merkle paths

**Expected output:**
```
=== Full AnchorService Integration Test ===
RPC: https://gnosis-mainnet.public.blastapi.io
Chain ID: 100
Contract: 0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC
Anchor requests: 3
  Request 0: id=..., prev=...
  Request 1: id=..., prev=...
  Request 2: id=..., prev=...

Anchoring batch...
Anchoring completed in 18.64s

=== Results ===
Time events created: 3
Proof chain ID: eip155:100
Proof tx_type: f(bytes32)
Proof tx_hash: bagjqcgza...
Proof root: bafyreien...

Time Event 0:
  prev: baeabeig...
  proof: bafyreic...
  path: 0/0

Time Event 1:
  prev: baeabeig...
  proof: bafyreic...
  path: 0/1

Time Event 2:
  prev: baeabeig...
  proof: bafyreic...
  path: 1

All assertions passed!
```

### Test Prerequisites

1. **Test Account**: You'll need a test account with some xDAI (~0.01 xDAI for testing)
2. **Private Key**: Export your test account's private key (hex format, no 0x prefix)
3. **Contract**: Default uses deployed test contract at `0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC`

## Configuration

The implementation supports comprehensive configuration for different networks:

```rust
use ceramic_anchor_evm::{EvmConfig, RetryConfig};

let config = EvmConfig {
    rpc_url: "https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY".to_string(),
    private_key: "your_private_key_hex".to_string(),
    chain_id: 100, // Gnosis Chain
    contract_address: "0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC".to_string(),
    retry_config: RetryConfig {
        max_retries: 5,
        base_delay: Duration::from_secs(3),
        ..RetryConfig::default()
    },
    confirmations: 2,
    confirmation_timeout: Duration::from_secs(180),
    poll_interval: Duration::from_secs(5),
};
```

## Usage with Ceramic One

The simplest way to enable EVM self-anchoring is via CLI options when running ceramic-one:

### CLI Options

```bash
ceramic-one daemon \
  --evm-rpc-url "https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY" \
  --evm-private-key "your_private_key_hex_without_0x" \
  --evm-chain-id 100 \
  --evm-contract-address "0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC" \
  --evm-confirmations 4 \
  --anchor-interval 3600
```

### Environment Variables

For production deployments, use environment variables to avoid exposing secrets:

```bash
# Required EVM options
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_RPC_URL="https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY"
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_PRIVATE_KEY="your_private_key_hex_without_0x"
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CHAIN_ID="100"
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONTRACT_ADDRESS="0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC"

# Optional tuning
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONFIRMATIONS="4"      # Block confirmations (default: 4)
export CERAMIC_ONE_ANCHOR_INTERVAL="3600"     # Seconds between anchors (default: 3600)
export CERAMIC_ONE_ANCHOR_BATCH_SIZE="1000000" # Max events per batch

# Run daemon
ceramic-one daemon
```

### Available CLI Options

| Option | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
|--------|---------------------|-------------|---------|
| `--evm-rpc-url` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_RPC_URL` | RPC endpoint for EVM chain | Required |
| `--evm-private-key` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for signing (hex, no 0x) | Required |
| `--evm-chain-id` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CHAIN_ID` | EVM chain ID (e.g., 100 for Gnosis) | Required |
| `--evm-contract-address` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` | Anchor contract address | Required |
| `--evm-confirmations` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONFIRMATIONS` | Block confirmations to wait | 4 |
| `--anchor-interval` | `CERAMIC_ONE_ANCHOR_INTERVAL` | Seconds between anchor batches | 3600 |

All four EVM options must be provided together.

### Example: Gnosis Chain Setup

```bash
# 1. Fund a wallet with xDAI (even 0.1 xDAI is sufficient for years of anchoring)
# 2. Export your private key (hex format, no 0x prefix)
# 3. Run ceramic-one:

ceramic-one daemon \
  --network mainnet \
  --evm-rpc-url "https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY" \
  --evm-private-key "55e16063c21943ad9d70fa10b0b9713c7dc42d4119ca6b83f36056d6188f4c70" \
  --evm-chain-id 100 \
  --evm-contract-address "0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC" \
  --anchor-interval 3600
```

## Programmatic Integration

The `EvmTransactionManager` implements the `TransactionManager` trait and can be used as a drop-in replacement for the remote CAS:

```rust
use ceramic_anchor_service::AnchorService;
use ceramic_anchor_evm::EvmTransactionManager;

// Replace RemoteCas with EvmTransactionManager
let tx_manager = Arc::new(EvmTransactionManager::new(evm_config).await?);

let anchor_service = AnchorService::new(
    tx_manager,
    event_service,
    pool,
    node_id,
    Duration::from_secs(3600), // Anchor every hour
    1000, // Batch size
);
```

## Gas Costs

Extremely cost-effective on Gnosis Chain:

- **First Anchor**: ~45,000 gas (~$0.0003 USD)
- **Subsequent Anchors**: ~28,000 gas (~$0.0002 USD)
- **Total Daily Cost** (24 anchors): ~$0.007 USD

## Supported Networks

- ✅ **Gnosis Chain** (100) - Tested and ready
- ✅ **Ethereum Mainnet** (1) - Production ready
- ✅ **Polygon** (137) - Fast and cheap
- ✅ **Arbitrum One** (42161) - Low gas costs
- ✅ **Base** (8453) - Coinbase L2
- ✅ **Any EVM Chain** - Just set the correct chain ID and RPC

## Contract Interface

The implementation uses a simple, efficient contract interface:

```solidity
interface IAnchorContract {
    /// Anchor a root CID on the blockchain
    function anchorDagCbor(bytes32 root) external;

    /// Event emitted when a root is anchored
    event RootAnchored(bytes32 indexed root, uint256 blockNumber, address indexed anchor);
}
```

The contract only needs a single function - the Rust implementation handles all proof construction from the transaction receipt.

## Performance

- **CID Processing**: 2M+ CIDs/second
- **Transaction Throughput**: Limited by blockchain, not implementation
- **Memory Usage**: Minimal overhead
- **Reliability**: Production-grade error handling and retry logic

## Next Steps

1. **Deploy to Additional Chains**: Use the same contract on other EVM networks
2. **Integration Testing**: Test with full Ceramic daemon
3. **Production Deployment**: Configure with real anchor intervals and batch sizes
4. **Monitoring**: Add metrics and alerting for production usage

This implementation provides everything needed for production self-anchoring while maintaining full compatibility with existing Ceramic infrastructure.

Commit message:

refactor(anchor-evm): simplify EVM RPC configuration for self-anchoring
Consolidate RPC URL configuration so that --evm-rpc-url is automatically
used for both submitting anchors AND validating anchor proofs on that chain.

Changes:
- Add --additional-chain-rpc-urls for validating anchors from other chains
- Deprecate --ethereum-rpc-urls (keep as hidden alias with warning)

anchor-evm/README.md, after:

# Ceramic EVM Anchoring Implementation

A complete self-anchoring solution for Ceramic that can submit root CIDs to any EVM-compatible blockchain using the alloy library.

## Features

- **Multi-chain Support**: Works with any EVM blockchain (Ethereum, Gnosis, Polygon, Arbitrum, Base, etc.)
- **Production Ready**: Comprehensive error handling, retry logic with exponential backoff
- **Compatible**: Maintains compatibility with existing Ceramic anchor service patterns
- **Efficient**: Uses modern alloy library with automatic gas estimation
- **Self-Sovereign**: No reliance on centralized anchor services

## Testing

The crate includes comprehensive tests at multiple levels:

### Unit Tests (no blockchain required)

```bash
cargo test -p ceramic-anchor-evm
```

Runs 15 tests including:
- CID to bytes32 conversion (verified against JS implementation)
- Transaction hash to CID (uses Keccak256 multihash + ETH_TX codec)
- Proof building with correct parameter order
- Configuration validation

### Integration Test: TransactionManager

Tests the EVM transaction submission flow in isolation.

```bash
# Required: Private key (hex, no 0x prefix)
export TEST_PRIVATE_KEY="your_private_key_hex"

# Optional: Override defaults
export TEST_RPC_URL="https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY"
export TEST_CONTRACT_ADDRESS="0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC"
export TEST_CHAIN_ID="100"

# Run the test
cargo test -p ceramic-anchor-evm test_evm_anchoring -- --ignored --nocapture
```

**What it tests:**
1. Connects to EVM chain and validates chain ID
2. Submits anchor transaction to contract
3. Waits for confirmations
4. Returns `RootTimeEvent` with correct proof structure

### Integration Test: Full AnchorService Flow

Tests the complete anchor pipeline including merkle tree building and time event creation.

```bash
export TEST_PRIVATE_KEY="your_private_key_hex"

cargo test -p ceramic-anchor-evm test_anchor_service_with_evm -- --ignored --nocapture
```

**What it tests:**
1. Creates mock anchor requests via `MockAnchorEventService`
2. `AnchorService` builds merkle tree from requests
3. Root CID is anchored on EVM chain
4. Time events are created with correct merkle paths

**Expected output:**
```
=== Full AnchorService Integration Test ===
RPC: https://gnosis-mainnet.public.blastapi.io
Chain ID: 100
Contract: 0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC
Anchor requests: 3
  Request 0: id=..., prev=...
  Request 1: id=..., prev=...
  Request 2: id=..., prev=...

Anchoring batch...
Anchoring completed in 18.64s

=== Results ===
Time events created: 3
Proof chain ID: eip155:100
Proof tx_type: f(bytes32)
Proof tx_hash: bagjqcgza...
Proof root: bafyreien...

Time Event 0:
  prev: baeabeig...
  proof: bafyreic...
  path: 0/0

Time Event 1:
  prev: baeabeig...
  proof: bafyreic...
  path: 0/1

Time Event 2:
  prev: baeabeig...
  proof: bafyreic...
  path: 1

All assertions passed!
```

### Test Prerequisites

1. **Test Account**: You'll need a test account with some xDAI (~0.01 xDAI for testing)
2. **Private Key**: Export your test account's private key (hex format, no 0x prefix)
3. **Contract**: Default uses deployed test contract at `0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC`

## Configuration

The implementation supports comprehensive configuration for different networks:

```rust
use ceramic_anchor_evm::{EvmConfig, RetryConfig};

let config = EvmConfig {
    rpc_url: "https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY".to_string(),
    private_key: "your_private_key_hex".to_string(),
    chain_id: 100, // Gnosis Chain
    contract_address: "0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC".to_string(),
    retry_config: RetryConfig {
        max_retries: 5,
        base_delay: Duration::from_secs(3),
        ..RetryConfig::default()
    },
    confirmations: 2,
    confirmation_timeout: Duration::from_secs(180),
    poll_interval: Duration::from_secs(5),
};
```

## Usage with Ceramic One

The simplest way to enable EVM self-anchoring is via CLI options when running ceramic-one:

### CLI Options

```bash
ceramic-one daemon \
  --evm-rpc-url "https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY" \
  --evm-private-key "your_private_key_hex_without_0x" \
  --evm-chain-id 100 \
  --evm-contract-address "0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC" \
  --evm-confirmations 4 \
  --anchor-interval 3600
```

### Environment Variables

For production deployments, use environment variables to avoid exposing secrets:

```bash
# Required EVM options
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_RPC_URL="https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY"
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_PRIVATE_KEY="your_private_key_hex_without_0x"
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CHAIN_ID="100"
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONTRACT_ADDRESS="0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC"

# Optional tuning
export CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONFIRMATIONS="4"      # Block confirmations (default: 4)
export CERAMIC_ONE_ANCHOR_INTERVAL="3600"     # Seconds between anchors (default: 3600)
export CERAMIC_ONE_ANCHOR_BATCH_SIZE="1000000" # Max events per batch

# Optional: Additional RPC URLs for validating anchors from other chains
# (e.g., historical anchors or synced events anchored on different chains)
export CERAMIC_ONE_ADDITIONAL_CHAIN_RPC_URLS="https://ethereum-rpc.publicnode.com,https://sepolia-rpc.publicnode.com"

# Run daemon
ceramic-one daemon
```

**Note:** The `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_RPC_URL` is automatically used for both submitting anchor transactions AND validating anchor proofs on that chain. Use `CERAMIC_ONE_ADDITIONAL_CHAIN_RPC_URLS` only if you need to validate anchors from other chains.

### Available CLI Options

| Option | Environment Variable | Description | Default |
|--------|---------------------|-------------|---------|
| `--evm-rpc-url` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_RPC_URL` | RPC endpoint for EVM chain (used for both anchoring and validation) | Required |
| `--evm-private-key` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for signing (hex, no 0x) | Required |
| `--evm-chain-id` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CHAIN_ID` | EVM chain ID (e.g., 100 for Gnosis) | Required |
| `--evm-contract-address` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` | Anchor contract address | Required |
| `--evm-confirmations` | `CERAMIC_ONE_EVM_CONFIRMATIONS` | Block confirmations to wait | 4 |
| `--anchor-interval` | `CERAMIC_ONE_ANCHOR_INTERVAL` | Seconds between anchor batches | 3600 |
| `--additional-chain-rpc-urls` | `CERAMIC_ONE_ADDITIONAL_CHAIN_RPC_URLS` | Additional RPC URLs for validating anchors from other chains | None |

All four EVM options must be provided together for self-anchoring.

### Example: Gnosis Chain Setup

```bash
# 1. Fund a wallet with xDAI (even 0.1 xDAI is sufficient for years of anchoring)
# 2. Export your private key (hex format, no 0x prefix)
# 3. Run ceramic-one:

ceramic-one daemon \
  --network mainnet \
  --evm-rpc-url "https://gnosis-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_KEY" \
  --evm-private-key "55e16063c21943ad9d70fa10b0b9713c7dc42d4119ca6b83f36056d6188f4c70" \
  --evm-chain-id 100 \
  --evm-contract-address "0x231055A0852D67C7107Ad0d0DFeab60278fE6AdC" \
  --anchor-interval 3600
```

## Programmatic Integration

The `EvmTransactionManager` implements the `TransactionManager` trait and can be used as a drop-in replacement for the remote CAS:

```rust
use ceramic_anchor_service::AnchorService;
use ceramic_anchor_evm::EvmTransactionManager;

// Replace RemoteCas with EvmTransactionManager
let tx_manager = Arc::new(EvmTransactionManager::new(evm_config).await?);

let anchor_service = AnchorService::new(
    tx_manager,
    event_service,
    pool,
    node_id,
    Duration::from_secs(3600), // Anchor every hour
    1000, // Batch size
);
```

## Gas Costs

Extremely cost-effective on Gnosis Chain:

- **First Anchor**: ~45,000 gas (~$0.0003 USD)
- **Subsequent Anchors**: ~28,000 gas (~$0.0002 USD)
- **Total Daily Cost** (24 anchors): ~$0.007 USD

## Supported Networks

- ✅ **Gnosis Chain** (100) - Tested and ready
- ✅ **Ethereum Mainnet** (1) - Production ready
- ✅ **Polygon** (137) - Fast and cheap
- ✅ **Arbitrum One** (42161) - Low gas costs
- ✅ **Base** (8453) - Coinbase L2
- ✅ **Any EVM Chain** - Just set the correct chain ID and RPC

## Contract Interface

The implementation uses a simple, efficient contract interface:

```solidity
interface IAnchorContract {
    /// Anchor a root CID on the blockchain
    function anchorDagCbor(bytes32 root) external;

    /// Event emitted when a root is anchored
    event RootAnchored(bytes32 indexed root, uint256 blockNumber, address indexed anchor);
}
```

The contract only needs a single function - the Rust implementation handles all proof construction from the transaction receipt.

## Performance

- **CID Processing**: 2M+ CIDs/second
- **Transaction Throughput**: Limited by blockchain, not implementation
- **Memory Usage**: Minimal overhead
- **Reliability**: Production-grade error handling and retry logic

## Next Steps

1. **Deploy to Additional Chains**: Use the same contract on other EVM networks
2. **Integration Testing**: Test with full Ceramic daemon
3. **Production Deployment**: Configure with real anchor intervals and batch sizes
4. **Monitoring**: Add metrics and alerting for production usage

This implementation provides everything needed for production self-anchoring while maintaining full compatibility with existing Ceramic infrastructure.
